Now that we've set up this app dot Js file,
I'm gonna modify it to include a HDP client that can interact with our Jason A.
P I.
Again,
we're going to do this without any kind of other libraries.
Without Jake weary or under school or anything like that.
We're just going to craft the raw XML issued GP requests ourselves.
So I'm gonna get rid of this console and then just add a note here that this is the
container for the front end application.
Now,
before we move any further attacks curating the functions,
I'm going to have a config object on the client side.
It will be important to be able to administer some kind of configuration that holds
environment specific variables or just state dependent variables such as the session token
.
All we know for sure that we need right now is this session tokens.
So I'm gonna call the conflict variable Abdel Config,
and it's just gonna have one key on it for now called session token,
which defaults toe false.
So client side,
our logic is going to know if you have logged in.
If you have got in a session token,
it's going to live here.
We're also later on going to persist it further to local storage as opposed to disk.
We can't persist a disc on the client side,
but we're going to persist it to local storage so that the session token can survive the
browser being refreshed.
Now we're actually going to write the Ajax client for the rest ful.
A p I.
The client is going toe,
have a few functions,
and so it's going to be a container itself at that client is just an empty object.
Now we're actually going to write APP that client dot requests,
which is going to be the interface for making a P I calls after a client dot request,
is going to be a function that takes in everything that the user needs to specify.
In order to make the A P.
I call,
they need to be able to specify the headers.
They want to send the path they want to make the request to.
We don't need domain or anything like that,
because this is always happening on local host to the same application.
They need to specify the method post,
get put or delete the query string object.
Rather than writing it in the path,
they could just provide key value pairs of the query string parameters that should be sent
,
the payload that they want to send,
if any,
and then a call back.
Now we have to do the tedious task of actually setting defaults for all of these things.
So the headers should be an object,
and it should not equal.
No.
If it passes,
those tests will use it.
Otherwise,
we will defaulted to an empty object.
Half should be a strength.
If it is,
we'll use it.
Otherwise we will default it to slash to nothing at all.
Method should also be a string,
and it should be specified as capital post get put or delete client side.
The XML http requests that we're going to create will require capital methods.
The query string object needs to be an object and not equal to know.
And so we're going to steal the validation that we just did on headers.
That is the same requirements for payload.
Copy that again so that haloed has the same validation.
Lastly,
Colback.
It's the equal they function or would have wanted to force.
We normally don't do this kind of sanity checking on the callback parameter.
The reason we're doing it here is we want to allow users to make app that client that
request calls,
with or without a call back.
And so we're just default him to fall so that we can check it later and say if there is a
callback call back.
But if there is not a call bath,
don't bother trying to call back because there's no function there now since we're actually
crafting this as a full u.
R L.
We want to add the query strict parameters to the path before we send it off.
Even though we allowed the users to specify the queries during our object s keys and values
when we send it,
we need to add it to the path.
So for each query string parameter sent,
add it to the path two.
So far,
the request you are well equals path plus question Mark and the question mark is there so
that we can add on the parameters just one after another,
we're going to count how every parameters we have,
and then we're gonna look through them safer of our query key in the query string object.
Perform this loop First you have to make sure that it's a rial ki.
So if the query drink object as own property query key,
then we'll continue.
Well,
both the counter up and then if at least one query string parameter has already been added
pre penned new ones with an ampersand.
So in other words,
if the query string already has Fu equals bar than before,
we add fizz equals buzz.
We have to add the and percent So we want to say,
if the counter this is the reason we're making the counting at all.
If the counter is greater than one remember,
it was just increment it here,
so it will already be one even for the first parameter.
So if it's greater than one,
then we want to say that the request you are l should have ampersand added to it.
And now we can actually add to keep that request Your l equals query key equals query,
string,
object quickie.
Now that we've gone through that four loop and the path has all the keys and values that we
needed to have,
we can form http request as a Jason type.
So we want to say that far x h r equals new XML.
Http request and then we want to open it.
So x h r dot open and pass it the method,
the request you are l the full euro that we just created and true.
Now we want to set the headers so x hr set request better.
But the only one we're concerned with at this moment is that content type should equal
application slash Jason now for each additional header sent in the actual headers object
that the user might have sent.
Now we need to add it to the request one by one.
So we're going to say that for far header key and headers that's looped through if headers
as own property pitter key exchange are set request header better key and then the value
which is headers Turkey.
Now if there is a current session token In other words,
if there's a session token up here,
we need to add that as a header as well.
So we want to say if app dot config the session token then and that as a header as well
header would be called token and the value is at config dot session token dot i d because
if the session token was added there,
it would be an object that would have a key called idee.
Now,
we need to start preparing for the request to come back.
So we're going to say when the request comes back hand of the response.
So x h r on ready state change is a function,
and we want to say if text HR ready state equals XML http request dot capital done.
That means the request is done.
And this syntax is just very specific to the way the XML HTP requests functions expose
themselves in browsers.
We want to get the status code that came back from the a p I.
So the status code equals x h r dot status and the response that they sent back response
returned equals x h r dot response text.
Now,
this is where we want to call back if the user provided a call back in the first place.
So called back if requested in some cases,
we might want to send often.
Http request and we don't care about the call back.
We don't care about getting response.
We just want Teoh send it off.
But in some cases,
we do want to call back.
So we will provide one.
We want to say if call back then we want to try and catch parsing the Jason response
because Jason Parse will throw in air if the response that I got back from the server
wasn't valid,
Jason.
So we're gonna catch the error and within the try,
we're going to say that far first response equals Jason dot cars the response returned and
then call back the status code and the poorest response to whoever called it.
Otherwise,
we'll just call back Status code and false.
Now we have prepared for what happens when the request comes back,
but we actually haven't sent off the request yet.
So now we want to send the payload as Jason when we do that by saying that the far payload
string equals Jason string.
If I payload and now we want to say x h r dot Send the payload straight.
I'm going to start this at back up just so we can load this page and this after Js in a
browser again and then used the console to play around with making client requests.
So I'm gonna reload this page.
Then I should be able to open up the console and directly access this object after client
that requests in order to make requests.
So I want to say dot client dot request and for illustrative purposes,
I'm just going to hit the pigging service right now,
so I don't need headers.
I can leave that undefined.
But I do want to send a path,
and that path is going to be paying.
The method is going to be get the query string object.
I was going to be undefined payload,
undefined.
But I do want a call back status code and the payload returned when it calls back.
I just want to look out what happened.
Status code,
payload.
All right,
so that just sent off.
And we can see that what came back was 200 an empty object.
I want to send off that same request again,
but this time I'm going to send it to a different round.
Let's send it to the users route.
We got a 404 because the user's route doesn't exist anymore.
It actually exists as a P I slash users.
So we're going to send that off and we got a 400 that we're missing a required field.
So we're seeing the same responses coming back for more a p I that we used to see when we
would make the requests using postman.
This client request function that we just built is the most important thing inside of app
dot Js And it's really the only client side logic that I think it's worth going into detail
on in this course.
The rest of the functions that will be added to this file will simply be gathering up form
inputs and sending it to our MP I,
or redirecting a logged out user to the You've been locked out page etcetera,
etcetera.
And so in the following lectures,
I'm not going to go into detail about the way that the app dot Js file is changing.
I'm simply just going to note that we are adding things to the app dot Js file and all
paste figs in there.
If you want to see the Code Amore detailed,
go over in detail.
All the code lecture by lecture is again available on the get hub separated out by lecture
so you can see how the code changed from lecture to lecture.
So without further ado,
we can kill this app and move on to the next lecture.